README.md, before:

# PyBer_Analysis
This is my work from week 5 of the Data Analytics Bootcamp.

## Challenge

### Background
You’ve been asked by your CEO to create an overall snapshot of the ride-sharing data. In addition to your scatter and pie charts, she would like to see a summary table of key metrics of the ride-sharing data by city type, and a multiple-line graph that shows the average fare for each week by each city type.

### Objectives
The goals for this challenge are for you to:

    Use Pandas functions like groupby, pivot, resample, and reset_index on a DataFrame.
    Use Pandas methods and attributes on a DataFrame or Series.
    Create a new DataFrame from multiple groupby() Series.
    Format columns of a DataFrame.
    Create a multiple-line graph.
    Annotate and apply styling to the chart.

### Instructions:

#### Part 1: Create PyBer Summary DataFrame

##### Create a summary DataFrame that showcases the following for each city type:

    Total Rides
    Total Drivers
    Total Fares
    Average Fare per Ride
    Average Fare per Driver
#### SUMMARY DATAFRAME

[final_summary_df.zip](https://github.com/efuen0077/PyBer_Analysis/files/4463976/final_summary_df.zip)

[PyBer-Challenge.ipynb.zip](https://github.com/efuen0077/PyBer_Analysis/files/4463977/PyBer-Challenge.ipynb.zip)

### Analysis for Part I:


#### Part 2: Create a Multiple-Line Plot for the Sum of the Fares for Each City Type
    Plot the sum of the fares for each city type.
    
    After merging the DataFrames, do the following:

    1. Rename columns {'city': 'City', 'date':'Date','fare':'Fare', 'ride_id': 'Ride Id','driver_count': 'No. Drivers', 'type':'City Type'}.
    2. Set the index to the Date column.
    3. Create a new DataFrame for fares and include only the Date, City Type, and Fare columns using the copy() method on the merged DataFrame.
    4. Drop the extra Date column.
    5. Set the index to the datetime data type.
    6. Check the DataFrame using the info() method to make sure the index is a datetime data type.
    7. Calculate the sum() of fares by the type of city and date using groupby() to create a new DataFrame.
    8. Reset the index, which is needed for Step 10.
    9. Create a pivot table DataFrame with the Date as the index and columns = 'City Type' with the Fare for each Date in each row. Note: There will be NaNs in some rows, which will be taken care of when you sum based on the date.
    10. Create a new DataFrame from the pivot table DataFrame on the given dates '2019-01-01':'2019-04-28' using loc .
    11. Create a new DataFrame by setting the DataFrame you created in Step 11 with resample() in weekly bins, and calculate the sum() of the fares for each week.
    
    Using the object-oriented interface method, plot the DataFrame you created in Step 12 using the df.plot() function. Things to consider with your plotting:
        Import the style from Matplotlib.
        Use the graph style fivethirtyeight.
        Add a title.
        Add x- and y-axes labels according to the final figure.
        Save the figure to the “analysis” folder.
        Make the figure size large enough so it’s not too small.
#### Plot of DataFrame --> Fares by City Type

###### Complete Code for this challenge
[PyBer-Challenge.ipynb 2.zip](https://github.com/efuen0077/PyBer_Analysis/files/4467837/PyBer-Challenge.ipynb.2.zip)

###### Line Chart
![Fares_by_City_Type](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/62089134/79089252-58b2c300-7cfa-11ea-87a7-7ff90824903d.png)

### Analysis for Part II:

Commit message:

PyBer - Challenge Analysis
Full analysis of Parts I and II.

README.md, after:

# PyBer_Analysis
This is my work from week 5 of the Data Analytics Bootcamp.

## Challenge

### Background
You’ve been asked by your CEO to create an overall snapshot of the ride-sharing data. In addition to your scatter and pie charts, she would like to see a summary table of key metrics of the ride-sharing data by city type, and a multiple-line graph that shows the average fare for each week by each city type.

### Objectives
The goals for this challenge are for you to:

    Use Pandas functions like groupby, pivot, resample, and reset_index on a DataFrame.
    Use Pandas methods and attributes on a DataFrame or Series.
    Create a new DataFrame from multiple groupby() Series.
    Format columns of a DataFrame.
    Create a multiple-line graph.
    Annotate and apply styling to the chart.

### Instructions:

#### Part 1: Create PyBer Summary DataFrame

##### Create a summary DataFrame that showcases the following for each city type:

    Total Rides
    Total Drivers
    Total Fares
    Average Fare per Ride
    Average Fare per Driver
#### SUMMARY DATAFRAME

[final_summary_df.zip](https://github.com/efuen0077/PyBer_Analysis/files/4463976/final_summary_df.zip)

[PyBer-Challenge.ipynb.zip](https://github.com/efuen0077/PyBer_Analysis/files/4463977/PyBer-Challenge.ipynb.zip)

#### Part 2: Create a Multiple-Line Plot for the Sum of the Fares for Each City Type
    Plot the sum of the fares for each city type.
    
    After merging the DataFrames, do the following:

    1. Rename columns {'city': 'City', 'date':'Date','fare':'Fare', 'ride_id': 'Ride Id','driver_count': 'No. Drivers', 'type':'City Type'}.
    2. Set the index to the Date column.
    3. Create a new DataFrame for fares and include only the Date, City Type, and Fare columns using the copy() method on the merged DataFrame.
    4. Drop the extra Date column.
    5. Set the index to the datetime data type.
    6. Check the DataFrame using the info() method to make sure the index is a datetime data type.
    7. Calculate the sum() of fares by the type of city and date using groupby() to create a new DataFrame.
    8. Reset the index, which is needed for Step 10.
    9. Create a pivot table DataFrame with the Date as the index and columns = 'City Type' with the Fare for each Date in each row. Note: There will be NaNs in some rows, which will be taken care of when you sum based on the date.
    10. Create a new DataFrame from the pivot table DataFrame on the given dates '2019-01-01':'2019-04-28' using loc .
    11. Create a new DataFrame by setting the DataFrame you created in Step 11 with resample() in weekly bins, and calculate the sum() of the fares for each week.
    
    Using the object-oriented interface method, plot the DataFrame you created in Step 12 using the df.plot() function. Things to consider with your plotting:
        Import the style from Matplotlib.
        Use the graph style fivethirtyeight.
        Add a title.
        Add x- and y-axes labels according to the final figure.
        Save the figure to the “analysis” folder.
        Make the figure size large enough so it’s not too small.
#### Plot of DataFrame --> Fares by City Type

###### Complete Code for this challenge
[PyBer-Challenge.ipynb 2.zip](https://github.com/efuen0077/PyBer_Analysis/files/4467837/PyBer-Challenge.ipynb.2.zip)

###### Line Chart
![Fares_by_City_Type](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/62089134/79089252-58b2c300-7cfa-11ea-87a7-7ff90824903d.png)

### Analysis for Parts I & II:
#### Analysis for Part I
The data displayed in the DataFrame from Part I represents the total rides, total drivers, total fares, average fare per ride, and average fare per driver (where "fare" is in USD) with respect to the type of city that PyBer is providing services for (i.e. Rural, Suburban, and Urban).

From the Dataframe, we can see that PyBer is most popular in Urban cities (1,625 total rides) and least popular in Rural cities (125 rides). To go along with this data, our DataFrame shows us that there are more drivers in the Urban cities (2,405 total drivers) as opposed to Rural (78 total drivers) or Suburban cities (490 total drivers).

It's quite interesting to see that the average fare per ride is cheapest in Urban cities ($24.53) and most expensive in Rural cities ($34.62). This same trend occurs with the average fare per driver. In other words, Urban city drivers obtain an smaller average fare ($16.57) and Rural city drivers obtain a significantly larger average fare ($55.49). One can also make this distinction when looking at the "Total Fares" column.

What does this data mean? One can say that the number of rides is dependent on the cost of the ride. In other words, more people are willing to pay for a PyBer ride IF the cost of the ride is cheaper. This is one major reason why Urban cities use PyBer more often than other city types.

#### Analysis for Part II
The line chart that we created justifies the data presented in the DataFrame from part I. On other thing that is very important to point out, especially for this part of the challenge, is that the date has quite the effect on when PyBer makes the most money in each city type.

From the line chart, we can see that the end of February is a GREAT time for PyBer to make money among ALL city types. Of course, this is something that we can point out when we are only looking at the months of January, February, March, and April.
